.. post:: 2008-02-04 22:00:54

Time to use that education
==========================

Okay people. Here's a proposal for you. Let's change this school of
ours. For my Senior project at UMW I'm creating an "Events"
calendar for the school and fredericksburg community, if you're
interested in that, read below.

=========QUOTE=========

This website has a couple of different goals that I would like to
tell you about.

The first and biggest goal of this website is for people to use it.
I want people to enjoy using this website, and find it useful.
Without that none of the other goals could possibly be
accomplished.

The second goal is to provide a central repository for events that
are happening in this area. When someone asks 'What is going on
tonight?', I want my site to be the first thing that comes to mind.
If someone asks you, it should be obvious to say to check this
website. That function in our community is currently not being
served, and I hope that this site becomes that very tool.

The third goal of this website is to connect the Mary Washington
and Fredericksburg communities. Currently, there is very little
interaction, at least on an institutional level between our great
school and great local communities. I wish to foster this
relationship, and allow Mary Washington students to be immersed in
the great culture that surrounds them here in this great town.

=======END BS======

Sound good? Okay, that's where you come in...

We're going to college, and I hope for the right reason. We love
what we do! I know that's true for me, and for others of you as
well. We all have our own special talents and skills, and I have a
lot of faith in my friends. I want to extend this offering to all
of you to hopefully be a part of something awesome. I know this
sounds cheesy, but have faith. I will make a badass website, and
you can help me.

I need help in some of the following areas, but that is nothing
compared to what could be accomplished. Give me your ideas,
feedback, and other things. The site isn't public quite yet, but if
you ask nicely I'll throw you a link. It should be launching in 3-4
weeks, at least for a some-what private beta. Your help would be
greatly appreciated.

Marketing: People need to know about the site...Else nobody will
use it. The more people that use the site, the more useful it
becomes. It is already useful in it's vanilla state (as an events
aggregater for the local community), but with people using it,
adding events, and all the other planned interactions then it will
become so much better...I can provide generic events for big
venues, but people are required for the local knowledge of the
Dixie Jims playing the Hot Dog Opera downtown, or Junk Science
playing the loft last Thursday.

Design: I'm a technical person, I can't design my way out of a box.
I need critiques and other stuff from people who know their shit.
From color schemes to spacing of text on a page, I know some people
live for that stuff. Any help is greatly appreciated. The current
look is fredericksburg themed, and that is here to stay, but any
cool photographs or idea for integrating the city more into the
design is muchly appreciated.

Writing: Lots of you fools are great writers (yea liberal arts!).
The best way to get people to remember cool things (this site) is a
story. You can tell them, and people want to hear them. I want to
talk about some cool ways of expressing all the shit I said above
better, and in more memorable ways.

Awesomeness in general: IDEAS!!!

The point of this post is multiple. One is that once this is
public, I have to do it or I look like a fool. Two is to get people
talking about it. Have a conversation about it, come up with ideas.
Yell at me or buy me a beer, any thought on this problem is
progress.

Thanks for your time...


