.. post:: 2009-05-21 19:18:47

The amazing array of ways to make a living
==========================================

One of the non-obvious things that I have always gained from my
travels is the wide array of things that people do to make a
living. While growing up in the United States, I was only exposed
to a tiny fraction of all the different ways to make a happy life.
All 4 of my parents have started a company at some point in their
lives, so I am pretty exposed to the entrepreneurial spirit.
However, there is just an array of ways to live that appeal to me.
I will list a couple here and talk about why I think they are
amazing.

I know a person who lives in the British Virgin Islands. They have
an apartment on land, and they work as a sea captain for charter
boats professionally. Their work week consists of 3-5 days out on a
boat, showing people around some of the most beautiful islands in
the world. The rest of the week they get to hang out on land and
enjoy the leisurely pace of island life.

I know a person who lives in Australia. They also live in an
apartment, going to work as a SCUBA instructor out on a boat for
3-4 days a week. They go out, and do multiple dives a day along the
Great Barrier Reef. Teaching excited people how to dive at all
levels. Then they come home to one of the nicest climates that I
have known to live for the rest of their week.

There are lots more of these people who live their lives to the
fullest, enjoying every bit of their time on this planet. It is
amazing that there are so many ways to live, that we can hardly
fathom.


