.. post:: 2009-06-02 11:08:07

Django Dash Projects
====================

First off, I'd like to thank
`Daniel Lindsley <http://www.toastdriven.com/>`_ for putting
together the `Django Dash <http://alt.djangodash.com>`_. I know it
was a lot of work, but it was an amazingly great time! I think
everyone that participated had fun, and I am looking forward to
doing it next year.

Daniel has a great
`write up <http://www.toastdriven.com/fresh/postmortem-django-dash-2009/>`_
over on his blog with stats and interesting things about the
competition. However, the thing that I think is most incredible
about the Dash is the number of sites that launched at the end of
the dash. This is just going to be a short post that links to them.

.. raw:: html

   <h4>
   
Name The Plane

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://ntp.sh5.me/ 1 thru 10 cropped pictures of aircraft are
displayed as you choose your answers from a multiple choice list.

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
Antichaos

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://video.yandex.ru/users/alexande... (Screencast) Easy
tagclouds

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
SortThings

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://beta.sortthings.com/ Get your $#!% in order. A great way to
build a list of your options then score, categorize or compare them
to find out your best choices. You're using it right now!

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   
   <h4>
   
Contribar

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://contribar.rdev.info/ Providing revision tracking for the
Django community

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   
   <h4>
   
Tiny Tim

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://tinytim.monimonk.com/ A tool to track your time.

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   
   <h4>
   
PyPants

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://pypants.org/ Python application rating. With pants.

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   
   <h4>
   
Reality Pick

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://realitypick.com/ A place for you to compare your predictions
about reality shows with your coworkers, friends, and family.

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   
   <h4>
   
Django Live

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://www.proyectomutuo.org/live/public This appears to be a chat
room.

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   
   <h4>
   
Flicasa

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://flicasa.com/ A new image processing service that provides an
easy way to perform basic image manipulation on-line with zero
software needed to be installed on the client side. flicasa offers
additional features like automatic batch processing, storage and
posting to third party services.

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   
   <h4>
   
Rudest Word

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://rudestword.com/

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
NTRIE

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://www.ntrie.com/ The N tree forum

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
Crunk'd

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://getcrunkd.com:88/ Crunk'd tracks your drinking so you and
your friends know exactly how drunk you are. It makes drinking
social even when you're by yourself.

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
Who has my?

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://whohasmy.net/ Keep track of items you've lent to others

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
What Would Strunk & White Do?

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://wwswd.com/ Helping the users of Twitter with vigorous
writing

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
Leafy Chat

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://leafychat.com/ IRC application

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
tnycnt

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://tnycnt.com/ Simple contact forms with short URLs

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
Djapp

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://djapp.org Djapp.org is the catalog of django applications.
Our goal is to give to django developers the easy and fast way to
find applications for their suits.

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   <ul class="primary_actions">
   </ul>
   
   <h4>
   
NYC Bird List

.. raw:: html

   </h4>
   <p>
   
http://nycbirdlist.org/ Use this site to track what birds you have
seen in Central Park, New York City. Add a sighting for each bird
you've seen. Build your list, compare your sightings with others
and help us keep track of birds in New York City. For now we are
only tracking birds seen around Central Park but there are plans to
expand to other birding spots very soon.

.. raw:: html

   </p>
   
   

