.. post:: 2008-11-12 13:48:46

The importance of not deleting blog posts (read: ideas)
=======================================================

A lot of the time I start a blog post as a sentence. It is
something that strikes me and I don't really know what I think
about it. It is a moment of thought that needs to be revisited, but
cannot yet be expounded upon.

A while ago I went through all of my un-published blog posts in an
effort to delete them. I read the titles and thought that there was
very little that I had to think or say about the topics. (The
beauty of django not letting you delete things en masse is that I
had to go into the post to delete it). Once I went into the post to
try and delete it, I found it nearly impossible. I realized that I
had been using my unfinished blog posts as a kind of note pad of
ideas, or a place where I just brain dumped when I felt the need.

The other crazy thing is that some of these posts had the ideas
more thought out that I previously thought. I had written a lot in
that space, and promptly forgotten about it. There is nothing quite
like remembering writing something that you forgot you knew.

The next question was what to do with all of these half finished
ideas, thoughts, and half-quack brained theories. What better than
to publish them? The value of an idea is very little. It gains a
lot of value when you are forced to write it out. It gains even
more insight when you appreciate that it will be read by others.
There is a progression that these texts go through that allows them
to be better than they were before.

The simple act of writing an ideas clarifies it. The simple act of
publishing an idea betters it. The feedback that is gained from the
public exposure is more or less external to the idea. The idea will
get better once there is feedback, but getting to the point where
there is feedback is the key. Once you have an idea 'polished'
enough for public consumption, it has gone almost beyond being an
idea. You have hopefully thought it out to a logical conclusion,
because you are going through, and putting yourself in the heads of
others.

This isn't how all posts work, or even most. But if you look at
things this way, it is a real driver to putting things out there
and not keeping them in. A little extrinsic motivation if you will.
The fact that your idea is getting spread to others to do with what
they please, means that you want your idea to be in the correct
form for that to happen, and that you want it to take those people
to the right place.

The other awesome gain from posting things is indeed the feedback
you get. A lot of people release software and it gets used in ways
that nobody ever intended it to be used. Having as many eye balls
looking at something is the best way to achieve something awesome.

**All of the above applies to code as well.** Also, don't take this
post as an example of the above, it could be written better, but i
wanted to get the idea out there. It's better than it was yesterday
;)


