.. post:: 2007-11-04 15:40:00

Fall is coming (and good content)
=================================

It's almost daylight savings time, this weekend. That makes me sad,
I hate it getting dark at 5pm. It will make work much more
manageable though. My current schedule is working 2-8 Monday's and
Wednesdays. I adopted this schedule to make sure that I actually
got some hours over the school year. 12/hr work weeks aren't too
bad, but it is pretty hard with my hardest ever semester of
school.

Today I read more about entrepreneurship, an issue that vastly
interests me more and more every day. I feel like I have the right
personality to start a company, and the skillset of engineering to
do it. The computer is my canvas, the internet my vocabulary, and
programming my paint. The huge freedom and flexibility afforded by
the computer and internet are awe inspiring, but also very
intimidating. I can most literally do *anything*, so what does one
do?

I guess this situation is better than the people who got liberal
arts degrees, namely most of my friends. They are in the same
situation as I am, except without the skills to create something
new, and without the vast salary potential. I am grateful that I am
blessed to enjoy doing something that most other people do not. The
power of computers and the internet is so awesome.

To start a company I need to have people to start it with. The CS
department at Mary Wash has been slow in giving me people who I
feel like I could do that with. I get along with some of the
people, but don't consider a large amount of them good friends
though. A lot of people seem to not actually be interested in CS,
or at least not for the right reasons. A lot of 'suffer through CS
education to get paid a lot' type, like doctors or lawyers. I have
a couple of prospects for co-founders, but I wish I had a bigger
network of Computer Science folk.


