.. post:: 2008-11-21 19:58:49

Luck and a New Life in Lawrence
===============================

Note: This isn't a technical post. If you don't want to be getting
posts like this, you can sign up for just my
`Django feed <http://feeds.feedburner.com/EricPlanetDjango>`_. This
is my personal blog, so stuff like this pops up from time to time
:).

Most people believe in luck. If you believe in luck, presumably the
chance of luck happening is 50/50 on the side of good or bad luck.
Each theoretically has an equal chance of happening, if luck is an
abstract quantity.

However, a big part of luck is being in the correct position to
embrace it. There are a lot of lucky breaks that people have
encountered that they have said 'no' to. Even more where they could
have had an incredibly lucky thing happen but it just wasn't right.
There are a lot of people who say that they have bad luck, but
perhaps they aren't setting themselves up to be able to be lucky.

To take a personal example, I feel incredibly lucky to be where I
am at the moment. There is not a lot of luck involved in it really;
I did a lot to get where I am. First off, I had to do a lot of work
by myself in college. Nobody taught classes in Django or anything
like that. I was incredibly lucky (in the real sense) to have an
adviser and professor who was amazing. He taught a Perl/Python
class, an Ajax class, and lots of other great classes that have
contributed to my knowledge. But if I hadn't taken those classes
and seized the opportunity to learn about web development, I
wouldn't be here.

The next big step was moving to Kansas! From Virginia, by the
ocean, having lots of friends, working in the same town I went to
college in, for a Python shop. That was the offer that I received
after college...Or move to Kansas and work for a Newspaper of all
things! Doing tech at a newspaper, how horrible...But this was no
ordinary newspaper, and this wasn't Kansas. It was Lawrence, a long
time stronghold for liberals since the Civil war. It was the
newspaper that invented Django, and was one of the first to
integrate the newsroom. A great place to work and a great place to
live.

Plus I had to be in a place in my life where I could up and move.
Had I had a girlfriend or some other commitment then I probably
would have stayed. There are a million things that could have kept
me from achieving what I know I should. From fear of the unknown,
being a thousand miles away from any family and a beach, to many
other things. But I knew it was the right thing to do, for my
career, and for my personal growth. That was it, and it was
decided, but it certainly wasn't easy, and a miraculously lucky
event didn't just fall into my lap. It was brooded over many a
night and weighed against the easy and obvious. Who knows what kind
of Luck I would have had, had I chosen the other path?

Speaking of moving to Lawrence, it's amazing how a change in life
(moving, new job, new friends, new everything) sends one's mind
thinking into the depths of existence. Ever since ending up in
Lawrence without any old friends and lots of time to think, I've
been re-evaluating a lot of things in my life, and my mind has been
working overtime.

Upon dramatic change in life simple assumptions no longer hold
true. I get to choose my entire life all over again. Do I want to
keep the same personality, same type of friends, same type of
lifestyle; or do all of these get changes (for the better, or for
the worse). Who knows, but it will be a hell of a ride trying to
figure it all out. And I'm going to enjoy every second of it,
because that's all I can do.

I have a great new group of coworkers that I have been spending a
good amount of time with. Good people, and they have a lot of
similar interests. My co-workers have an amazing depth and breadth
of geek knowledge, while managing to maintain a social ability that
is above par for a lot of geeks. It is quite impressive and says a
lot about the town and people of Lawrence that they are able to
keep such quality programmers employed, inventive, happy, and
productive.

I think that progressive places have always been the breeding
ground of great ideas. The company that you keep says a lot about
you, and a town with such progressive and forward-thinking ideas
and ideals about the way things should be; allows us to simmer in
the creativity that abounds in many forms.

I was having a conversation with a new-found friend the other day.
He was talking about the brilliance of the people in Lawrence,
about how you can't think less of people. A simple example was that
when we were eating he mentioned the server of our food was an
amazing guitarist. In fact, we talked to him about it and
apparently he was playing that night at a venue downtown.

In most situations and other places that I have lived, I tend to
assume the worse of people. "People tend to suck" is one of my
phrases that I say. Lawrence really gives me an appreciation of the
ability of my common man, and the fact that they are impassioned
and striving for something (anything) is highly inspirational.
Surrounding yourself with people that are passionate about anything
is a great way to develop passion within yourself.

Is it lucky that I've ended up in such a cool place. Or is it
because it is such a cool place that I moved halfway across the
country to live and work here? These are the kinds of things that I
have been pondering as of late...

Now back to your regularly scheduled geekery.


