.. post:: 2008-12-03 19:45:39

Starting a Django Conventions Project and Reference
===================================================

During the last month I have proposed some conventions for Django,
mostly in the realm of templates. In doing so I have looked around
for other documented places where conventions are mentioned. I
haven't found a really good reference for Django conventions.
`Brian's post <http://oebfare.com/blog/2008/nov/04/reusable-app-conventions/>`_
was a good example of reusable app conventions, and the
`Pinax Project <http://pinaxproject.com/>`_ is a great reference
implementation. However, I couldn't find any simple reference for
regularly used conventions in the Django world.

I don't know if this will be useful for people, but I think this
goes along the whole convention/pattern ideal. If we all use a
common naming, syntax, and style in places where they can be
arbitrary, then we gain a lot of value of being able to understand
whats going on in others code. So I have started a project that
hopefully will act as a
`reference for Django Conventions <http://ericholscher.com/projects/django-conventions/>`_.

Currently it is pretty sparse, but I think that having that
document in any form is a great step. I'd love to hear some
feedback, and it needs a lot of work, so feel free to email me or
leave comments here with your additions and criticisms. If this
idea becomes useful, I would be fully in support of including it in
the Django Documentation or something along those lines as well,
but I don't know how "official" this will really be. For the moment
just consider it my hair brained idea of how things should be done
:) Cheers.


