.. post:: 2007-11-14 15:42:22

Writing Advice?
===============

The story starts out unusually. One of my friends is trying to
write a very important letter to a family member. He doesn't know
how to write it. He has the outline, but is very worried about the
implied psychological impact. They worry about the reader thinking
too much; "was he trying to be so nice and just said all nice
things", or on the inverse "Wow, how hateful, full of hate he must
have been"…We brainstorm the answer to the question which will seem
obvious.

My advice: Just write. How are you feeling? He was feeling hatred
at the time; for having to write the letter and towards the
situation in general. That's the advice I give….RANT, spell out
everything bad about the situation, the aunt, and writing in
general if you will. Then move on….

It's a Computer Science idiom…Take the top and the bottom, then
figure out what actually works. Write that rant full of hate. Then
turn it on it's head, write that letter full of apology, understand
the other persons point of view, get on the same page. Then write
your actual letter.

Once you get past the abstract idea of the top and bottom, into the
physical representation, it is much easier to analyze. Once you
know what you said in your utmost anger and your utter sympathy,
you know that you can't say that in actuality.

Once you know what not to say, you can narrow down what to say.
Writing an emotionally charged letter like that isn't about saying
the right thing; it's about NOT saying the wrong thing. Once
emotions are involved, you have to direct them. If you can keep
them from going down the rabbit hole of love or hate, you are in an
infinitely safer territory. Emotions have to be kept within bounds,
not exasperated and poked until a response. In situations like
these, no response is a good response.

My friend was having trouble writing the letter, that's where my
advice came from. I told him that it would be easier to write a
rant than to not write at all. He was flustered by being stuck at
the same point, at an outline with no perfect paper written. I told
him to avoid perfection, work outside in. Write the top and the
bottom of the emotional plane, and then work your way inside. His
default emotion was perturbed, so the end result will end up more
angry than passive, but you can't achieve perfection in a single
keystroke. You have to have a start somewhere. The easiest way to
get over writers block is to write what you feel, then don't send
it, and actually write what you really feel. This context is
uber-important. You don't send an e-mail when you're angry, you
just write the first draft.

Write to the top, write to the bottom, write to the middle. Figure
out where your allegiance lies, and decide appropriately from
there. It's amazing how much easier it is to edit a paper when your
reference is a very strongly worded statement, instead of an ideal
idea. Making yourself sound more tempered from absolute crazy is
trivial; making yourself sound level-headed for 2000 words on your
first try is quite the accomplishment.


