.. post:: 2009-11-19 20:36:12

Writing Code with Designers
===========================

When working on side projects, usually you wear all of the hats.
Sysadmin, developer, designer, marketing, etc. You have to do all
of them, and presumably you do one or two of them well, and the
others well enough to get by. Working at the Journal World has been
the first time that I have worked with real designers, and it has
been a learning experience.

I think it would be interesting to see a talk or a panel at
Djangocon this upcoming year about how to write code with
designers. There are a lot of little things that allow them to work
with your code better. A couple things that I can think of off the
top of my head are:


-  How to structure data for templates
-  How to write templates that are easy to mark up, with the least
   amount of effort
-  Writing good template tags and filters

I think that there is also a design process, where it really helps
if you include the designer in the process of scheming
functionality. I really find that designers have a better handle on
asking the 'what does the user do here?' and 'what does this
actually accomplish?' questions. Working with them on projects is a
really interesting difference than working by yourself on things.

Do you have designers that you work with, and does it help your
program design? Do you just have other programmers to bounce ideas
of off? Does it work in a similar way?

I find that this workflow is really beneficial to all involved. It
is the first time I have had the luxury of it, and was wondering if
other people have this process as well.


