.. post:: 2012-12-31 08:06:17

2012 Year in Review 
====================

Wow, what a year. 2012 was a great year in my book. I took 2012 off
from a lot of the professional development activies that have taken
up my adult life thus far, and really focused on personal
development. I think I did a great job with that, and I have a
pretty awesome list of things I accomplished this year. I think I
also started to get the full enjoyment out of Oregon this year, in
all its seasons.

Physical achievements
---------------------

The biggest achievement of the year has to be the Petal Pedal I did
in June. That's a
`100 mile bike ride <http://petalpedal.com/2011/09/the-century/>`_
through the Willamette Valley in Oregon. I trained for it through
most of the spring with rides that started out around 20 miles and
ended up in around 70-80 miles. Previously the longest bike ride I
had done was probably around 10 miles. The official ride also had
5000 ft of eleveation gain, which added another element of
difficultly. The ride was beautiful though, and went through a
bunch of flower fields and Silver Falls State Park.

Earlier in 2012, I also started taking up skiing again. I went up
to `Ski Bowl <http://www.skibowl.com/winter/>`_ for night skiing a
bunch. I went ahead and bought a season pass for Ski Bowl for the
2013 season.

As summer came to Portland, I was outside pretty much all the time.
It was a most excellent summer weather-wise and I took full
advantage of it. I did a bunch of backpacking up on Mount Hood,
with a number of weekend trips to various places including Carin
Basin and Paradise Park. I also went car camping a bunch, including
at Rock Creek in the Santiam State Forest, and Trillium Lake on
Hood. I also stayed in a Yurt on the Oregon Coast for the first
time at Cape Lookout.

The summer also included a couple fun road trips. I got down to see
Crater Lake, the only national park in Oregon. We camped there for
a night and drove around the rim. It is one of the most amazing
places I have ever been. It's a crystal clear blue lake, but it's
in the rim of an extinct volcanoe, at around 5000 ft elevation.
It's a really amazing geological place and highly recommended.
After that, we drove up to Bend, and camped at Lava Lake, which is
also a beautiful place. We saw tons of ground squirrels and other
wildlife there. We also went through Bend and walked around, and
checked out Smith Rock. The trip concluded with a sunset walk up to
Mirror Lake on hood, and a race against the sun to get back to the
car.

I made it back home for 2 of my good college friends getting
married (to each other) in DC and visited family in Virginia. I got
some surfing in down in Virginia Beach, which was great. It's
something I miss about Oregon, because the water is so cold here.
Made it out to the Oregon Coast, but it's mainly just good for
looking instead of swimming in.

The summer also included some awesome hikes and other activities. I
went out to Hood River a couple times, and actually Wind Surfed and
Paddle Boarded for the first time. We also drove around the east
side of Hood to the Fruit Loop and gorged on cherries and other
delicious fruit. Speaking of fruit, I ate a ton of berries again
this year, with Oregon having some of the finest summer farmers
markets in all the land.

Hiking was a big draw this year. I went on a number of hikes
including the PCT from Timberline Lodge all the way to Cairn Basin
on a couple different days. Eagle Creek, Angel's Rest, Dog
Mountain, and a few more in the Columbia River Gorge. I hiked the
Wildwood trail through Forest Park a number of times, however I
didn't thru-hike it's 30 miles, will have to save that for next
year.

As fall came around, things started to slow down. I still did a
bunch of hiking through the fall, and riding my bike. I started
rock climbing around this time to keep up the activity level, and
have been progressing nicely at indoor climbing at the Portland
Rock Gym. I can't wait to test my skills outside, but I already
noticed my balance and confidence improving on the hikes I did in
the fall.

As winter came into view, I escaped down to the Turks & Caicos
islands for Christmas. Where I did 7 dives, got my Advanced Open
Water cert, and did a bunch more snorkeling. It was great hanging
out with my family in the warmth, and spending time in the water.
When I got back, I went on my first snowshoeing adventure ever on
Hood. I really like snowshoeing, it's basically just like hiking in
the snow, just it takes a lot more work!

This year was also full of Ping Pong. We have a table at work, and
it's rekindled my love of the game. I played some when I was a kid,
but we have gotten pretty good and serious at work, and it's been a
pleasure upping my skills again.

In list form
------------

A list of firsts for the year:


-  Rock Climbing
-  Backpacking
-  Wind Surfing
-  Paddle Boarding
-  Snow Shoeing
-  Long Distance Biking

Things that I love that I did more of this year:


-  Ping Pong
-  Hiking
-  Camping
-  Skiing
-  Diving
-  Snorkeling
-  Biking

Things I love that I didn't do so much of:


-  Surfing
-  Traveling
-  Soccer
-  Frisbee

New things I want to try next year:


-  Bike Camping
-  Longer backpacking trips
-  Climbing outside
-  Climbing Mount Hood and/or St Helens
-  Thru hiking Forest Park
-  White Water Rafting
-  Kayaking

Conclusion
----------

I'm sure I missed some stuff, but it was a year full of firsts, and
I think I have gotten the most out of Oregon that I could. I chose
to focus on my personal life this year instead of my professional
life, and I think it's worked out for the best. I have had an
amazing year full of excellent activies outdoors.

I also saw a bunch of music this year, and met a bunch of awesome
new people, and did a bunch of great things professionally, but I
think the points worth remembering will be the parts above.

As a wise man once said: **Work to Live, Don't Live to work**.


