.. post:: 2009-09-26 10:12:09

Hacker Book Club
================

At `LPDN <http://lpdn.org>`_, our weekly programmer drinkup, we
have been talking for a while about watching the
`SICP lectures <http://groups.csail.mit.edu/mac/classes/6.001/abelson-sussman-lectures/>`_
from MIT as a fun thing to do. I then got to thinking about how it
would be neat to involve more than just the few of us in Lawrence.
Everything is more fun on a larger scale, and having compatriots
makes you more likely to finish it. Somewhere along the lines of
the `Infinite Summer <http://infinitesummer.org/>`_, I was thinking
about having some kind of Hacker Book Club.

`SICP <http://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/>`_ may be a bit intense for
the beginning of the club, but it's something that I think that
everyone can learn and have fun with. Along with the typical book
club style things, seeing the audience, I think we could make some
really neat additions to the idea. A few have come to mind, but I'm
sure there are lots more.

I would imagine having an IRC channel where we can all hang out and
ask each other questions. I'm sure the #scheme channel will be a
resource as well, but it could be neat to have a focused group of
people focused on learning the same material. It feels a bit like
an open source classroom, where disperate people can come together
to learn and share in the open source mindset. Sharing is caring,
not cheating.

Since SICP is available for free online, we could suck the book
into a database of some sort and allow a commenting/discussion
medium around the text as well. The
`Django Book <http://djangobook.com>`_ is a good example of that. I
think it would be interesting trying to tie in discussion on the
site with IRC. Perhaps have some kind of encoding that allows you
to reference pages in the book on IRC and have that inline the log
transcripts. My friend `Nathan <http://playgroundblues.com>`_ also
runs `Readernaut <http://readernaut.com>`_, and already has a basic
syntax established for tracking book progress on Twitter. We could
throw this on IRC and twitter as well, where each user could
register their account and keep progress.

I think it would be a really interesting way to combine a lot of
the conversations that happens across the web in one place, with
context, about a book. I have also wanted similar abilities in
other things (Think your work IRC channel and code instead of Book
pages). This could spawn a neat open source project, if we were so
motivated.

Let me know what you think!


