.. post:: 2008-03-14 11:18:54

All majors are the same
=======================

Had an interesting conversation with my roomate Mike last night. It
helped me clarify something I have always understood, but never
found a good way to say. This is probably going to be another
failed attempt, but here goes.

All majors in college are generally the same. You are learning the
same ideas in a different context. Mike is writing 'something',
using changing channels on a television to represent changing of
ideas. He is playing with all of the points of view, from first to
third, and then on to 'fourth' and fifth as well. In talking about
the style that he is writing I began to look at it through my
computer science viewpoint on things. Viewing the writing in levels
of abstractions, arranged in a hierarchy, starting from the first
person point of view on the bottom and working up.

This got me thinking about the top level of both of our majors. It
is generally assumed that English and Computer Science majors are
about as far apart on the spectrum of brain workings as you can
get, but not the way I see it. My take on writing is that it is one
level above computers in the abstract hierarchy of everything. A
programming language and a spoken language perform the same
operation, but the programming language is limited by hardware. The
English language is the programming language of our brain, and it
offers the utmost flexibility. You can do anything with words and
ideas (thanks metaphor). Computers are one way of limiting that
excellent flexibility.

Good design embraces constraints, and the technical constraints
provided by a computer allow me a frame of reference. I embrace the
computer because of its technical nature. It is the closest thing
that humans are gotten to constructing an artificial brain. AI
being a huge area of study in computers. So computer science is
simply learning to think like a computer. The programming language
that you use to program a computer is also how you think about a
computer. An analogy in spoken language: there are ideas in German
that can't be expressed in English. The constraint of language
doesn't allow one to conceptualize some part of that idea.

The brain is the hardware that English majors write for. The
computer is my hardware. We are using the same ideas just applied
through a different lens.


